# PIDP

The Performance Indicators Development Process (PIDP), as defined in the work brought by Xavier, 2024, explores and analyzes processes-related data to look for candidates for performance indicators. The PIDP uses clustering techniques to group related data together. First, the data is downloaded from available public data sources. The samples with the standardized data are analyzed to search for performance indicators among the features, present as the name of the columns of the data set. The PIDP also deals with difficulties regarding the quality of the data being processed. The same process is presented by other techniques like data envelopment analysis (DEA), as pointed by Ferreira et al., 2023. The PIDP depicts the basic concepts of PIs implementation.
For this aspect, it can be seen as a framework to achieve the PIs implementation’s goals, as a stakeholder-centred process developed by Dransfield et al., 1999 The results of the clustering methods are used as the input to analyses to be done in the quantitative analysis phase. The quantitative analysis identifies potential performance indicator candidates among the features used to segregate the samples into groups. The confirmation of a candidate can be validated by looking into selected samples’ data to check how stable is the candidate in separating the groups in the presence of other data. This step, executed using two ex-perimental techniques, results in the qualitative analysis of the candidates to performance indicator. If the performance indicator found during the process can be used as the main source in a decision-making process, it is promoted to a key performance indicator. The PIDP workflow overview is synthesized in Figure 1.
